DO NOT MERGE [LB] Notification updates (#4912)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/load-balancing/reference/migration-guides/health-monitor-notifications.md

---
pcx-content-type: configuration
title: Health monitor notifications
weight: 2
---

# Health monitor notifications

> Cloudflare is migrating the notifications used by load balancing [health monitors](/load-balancing/understand-basics/monitors) to use Cloudflare's centralized [Notifications Service](/fundamentals/notifications/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudflare is migrating the notifications used by load balancing [health monitors](/load-balancing/understand-basics/monitors/) to use Cloudflare's centralized [Notifications Service](/fundamentals/notifications/).
```

## What is changing and why?

> Cloudflare’s account-level [Notifications Service](/fundamentals/notifications/) is now the centralized location for most Cloudflare services. This change promotes consistency and streamlined administration, as well as giving you more options for notification delivery (Webhooks, multiple pools tied to the same notification). These new notifications will also be managed at the account level instead of at the zone level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cloudflare’s account-level [Notifications Service](/fundamentals/notifications/) is now the centralized location for most Cloudflare services. This change promotes consistency and streamlined administration, as well as gives you more options for notification delivery such as configuring webhooks or associating multiple pools with the same notification. These new notifications will also be managed at the account level instead of the zone level.
```

We strongly encourage all customers to migrate existing Health Monitor notifications to Cloudflare’s centralized Notifications Service to avoid lapses in alerts.

## Migration guide

### Step 1 - Find existing notifications

First you should determine which pools are using notifications.

<details>
<summary>No code</summary>

<div>

To find pools with existing notifications in the dashboard:

> 1. Log into the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account and domain.
> 1. Go to **Traffic** > **Load Balancing**.
> 1. Click **Manage Pools**.
> 1. On a pool, click **Edit**.
> 1. For **Health Check Notifications**, check the value is toggled to **On**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log into the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account and domain.
2. Go to **Traffic** > **Load Balancing**.
3. Click **Manage Pools**.
4. On a pool, click **Edit**.
5. For **Health Check Notifications**, check the value is toggled to **On**.
```

</div>
</details>

<details>
<summary>With code</summary>

<div>

> If using the [Cloudflare API](https://api.cloudflare.com/#account-load-balancer-pools-list-pools), check the `notification_filter` object. Health checks with enabled legacy notifications will have something like:

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should also include that this only matters for pools that have `notification_email` set. If a pool does not have a `notification_email` (i.e. it is an empty string `""`), then `notification_filter` does not really matter, since no emails will be fired anyway.

> - If using the [Cloudflare API](https://api.cloudflare.com/#account-load-balancer-pools-list-pools), check the `notification_filter` object. Health checks with enabled legacy notifications will have something like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using the [Cloudflare API](https://api.cloudflare.com/#account-load-balancer-pools-list-pools), check the `notification_filter` object. Health checks with enabled legacy notifications will have something like:
```

Reviewer: I removed this as it seemed weird to have an unordered list with only one item. Feel free to ignore me if there's something I'm missing here :)

<details>
<summary>No code</summary>

<div>

On the pool you located in [Step 1](#step-1---find-existing-notifications), look for **Pool Notifications**. Click **Create a Health Alert** to start [creating a notification](/fundamentals/notifications/create-notifications/).

</div>
</details>

<details>
<summary>With code</summary>

<div>

If using the Cloudflare API, [create a new notification](https://api.cloudflare.com/#notification-policies-create-a-notification-policy) with the following parameters specified:

```json
"alert_type": "g6_health_alert",
"filters": {
    "pool_id": <<ARRAY_OF_INCLUDED_POOL_IDS>>,
    "new_health": <<ARRAY_OF_STATUS_TRIGGERS>> ["Unhealthy", "Healthy"],
    "event_source": <<ARRAY_OF_OBJECTS_WATCHED>> ["pool", "origin"]
}
```

</div>
</details>

### Step 3 - Remove deprecated notifications

<details>
<summary>No code</summary>

<div>

Once you created your new notification in [Step 2](#step-2---create-new-notifications), you will return to the pool you were editing previously. To disable the deprecated notifications, toggle the **Health Check Notifications** on your pool to **Off**.

</div>
</details>

<details>
<summary>With code</summary>

<div>

> If using the Cloudflare API, send a [PATCH](https://api.cloudflare.com/#account-load-balancer-pools-patch-pool) request that includes the following objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using the Cloudflare API, send a [`PATCH`](https://api.cloudflare.com/#account-load-balancer-pools-patch-pool) request that includes the following objects.
```

> If using the Cloudflare API, send a [`PATCH`](https://api.cloudflare.com/#account-load-balancer-pools-patch-pool) request that includes the following objects.

Reviewer 2: I'm wondering if this is overkill to also clear out `notification_filter`, but it should be fine either way.

Clearing out only the `notification_email` is sufficient, and will line-up with our implementation for the new PATCH pools endpoint (https://api.staging.cloudflare.com/#account-load-balancer-pools-patch-pools)

```json

> "notification_email": "",

Reviewer: Should this field include something like `<YOUR_EMAIL>`?

Author: It's actually meant to remove the email value.

"notification_filter": {
    "pool": {
        "healthy": null,
        "disable": true
    }
}
```

</div>

> </details>

Reviewer 2: On somewhere on this page, we should mention that notifications for all pools can be cleared out at once using the new bulk-PATCH endpoint https://api.staging.cloudflare.com/#account-load-balancer-pools-patch-pools  

So once a customer has migrated all of their alerts, the customer can just call this endpoint once with `{notification_email: ""}`, which will set all emails to `""`, effectively removing the possibility of firing these deprecated notifications. We also need to clarify that this new endpoint uses the pagination parameters (Pagination under https://api.cloudflare.com/#getting-started-requests), so the number of pools affected by a single bulk-PATCH may not include all of the pools. We currently only support the query params `limit`/`offset` or `per_page`/`page` (these are equivalent, just user preference whether to use one or another), but not `direction` nor `order` for this endpoint. 

I don't think we need to document this anywhere, but just FYI I believe `limit` and `per_page` are 25 by default, and must be at least 5. `offset` and `page` need to be a multiple of `limit`/`per_page`, so for example `limit=5&offset=2` is not ok, but `limit=5&offset=0` or `limit=5&offset=5` is okay.

We strongly encourage all customers to migrate existing Health Monitor notifications to Cloudflare’s centralized Notifications Service to avoid lapses in alerts.

## Migration guide

### Step 1 - Find existing notifications

First you should determine which pools are using notifications.

<details>
<summary>No code</summary>

<div>

To find pools with existing notifications in the dashboard:

1. Log into the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account and domain.
2. Go to **Traffic** > **Load Balancing**.
3. Click **Manage Pools**.
4. On a pool, click **Edit**.
5. For **Health Check Notifications**, check the value is toggled to **On** and an email address is present in the **Notification email address** field.

</div>
</details>

<details>
<summary>With code</summary>

<div>

If using the [Cloudflare API](https://api.cloudflare.com/#account-load-balancer-pools-list-pools), check the `notification_filter` object. Health checks with enabled legacy notifications will have something like:

    ```json
    "pool": {
        "healthy": true,
        "disable": true
    }
    ```

> You should also pay attention to the `notification_emails` parameter. Even if the `notification_filter` indicates that a health checks should send notifications, those will only be sent if there are email addresses listed in `notification_emails`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should also pay attention to the `notification_email` parameter. Even if the `notification_filter` indicates that health checks should send notifications, those will only be sent if an email address is present in `notification_email`.
```

<summary>No code</summary>

<div>

On the pool you located in [Step 1](#step-1---find-existing-notifications), look for **Pool Notifications**. Click **Create a Health Alert** to start [creating a notification](/fundamentals/notifications/create-notifications/).

</div>
</details>

<details>
<summary>With code</summary>

<div>

If using the Cloudflare API, [create a new notification](https://api.cloudflare.com/#notification-policies-create-a-notification-policy) with the following parameters specified:

```json
"alert_type": "load_balancing_health_alert",
"filters": {
    "pool_id": <<ARRAY_OF_INCLUDED_POOL_IDS>>,
    "new_health": <<ARRAY_OF_STATUS_TRIGGERS>> ["Unhealthy", "Healthy"],
    "event_source": <<ARRAY_OF_OBJECTS_WATCHED>> ["pool", "origin"]
}
```

</div>
</details>

### Step 3 - Remove deprecated notifications

<details>
<summary>No code</summary>

<div>

Once you created your new notification in [Step 2](#step-2---create-new-notifications), you will return to the pool you were editing previously. To disable the deprecated notifications, toggle the **Health Check Notifications** on your pool to **Off**.

</div>
</details>

<details>
<summary>With code</summary>

<div>

> If using the Cloudflare API, we recently added a [`PATCH`](https://api.cloudflare.com/#account-load-balancer-pools-patch-pool) endpoint so you can easily remove email notifications from multiple pools at the same time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If using the Cloudflare API, we recently added a [`PATCH`](https://api.cloudflare.com/#account-load-balancer-pools-patch-pools) endpoint so you can easily remove email notifications from multiple pools at the same time.
```
